#Cognex Vision Compression Tool

The client has an issue with the storage of their vision images for their factory line. The line has over 60 vision systems all collecting thousands of images every shift. The Cognex camera then saves the images to the P in BMP format. This allows the images to be seen with the Cognex overlay which is an SVG file. The overlay shows all the measurements and data recieved by the camera. The problem is the BMP files take up a huge amount of storage and because of this the client only saves 4000 images per camera and then overwrites once 4000 are saved. This may only amount to 2 weeks of images at best. They need a long term solution to allow them to look back over a years worth of images and use them for customer complaints or for process development of the factory line.

This script was created to deal with this issue. The script runs on a Windows task scheduled basis. At the end of each shift the script sends the images taken within the last 24 hours to a location on a hard drive. From here they are compressed and converted to JPG. This reduces their size by over 20 times approximately. This is a major difference and allows the client to have a years archive at least. The script creates a folder each day with the date in the name so that images can easily be searched by date. When images need to be converted back for analysis with the Cognex overlay there is a script "Convert_2_BMP" that will convert them back to their original state. 

This is a transformational improvement for the client as it gives them full traceability of their images for a long period of time and it allows them to use the images to make improvements to their process.
